# Course Project (CPS 510)
The course project is for you to explore some direction that you are interested in. Course projects will be done in groups. Each group can have 1-3 students. You can use piazza to find teammates.

We will not give your detailed guidance as with the programming assignments, so you need to take your initiative in finding a project topic and overcoming challenges in programming and debugging on your own.

# Suggested Directions:

## (Option 1) Study something with eBPF.
Take a look at how to use eBPF for monitoring (https://github.com/iovisor/bcc) and networking (https://cilium.io/, https://github.com/facebookincubator/katran). You can also implement a loadable kernel module to understand Linux's behaviors using tracepoints (https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/trace/tracepoints.txt).

## (Option 2) Implement some advanced OS features on top of xv6.
Xv6's source code is at https://github.com/mit-pdos/xv6-public. You can add support for namespaces, support for cgroups, a graphic interface, a network stack, or other useful Linux features to xv6.

## (Option 3) Some significant extension of one of our existing labs.
Bear in mind the new features added should be significant and involve real OS related coding challenges - but if you enjoyed one of the labs this could be a good starting point.

## (Option 4) Benchmark or reproduce a system research paper.
Think about whether you can produce a "scaled-down" version of a system paper you have recently read or a widely-used system. For example, can you use namespaces and cgroups to implement a simple Docker-like container tool? Another way to deeply understand a system research paper is to analyze their prototypes. Many research projects are open-sourced. What is their performance compared to alternative approaches? Can you breakdown their running time in detail?

## (Option 5) Your own ideas!
If you are already involved in some software system research, feel free to use it as your course project. We take a broad view of what system research is. Otherwise, you can do whatever you feel is interesting related to operating systems, distributed systems, and networking. However, your project must include software artifact development.

# A Good Project

A good project will have:

**Code.**  The exact amount can vary but, any project should involve some significant development (~500 lines).  It isn't important that the code be very challenging (i.e. it doesn't have to kernel hacking etc.) but it should show clear evidence that you utilized some of the skills and ideas from the course.  It also needs to be clear that the code it correct - either via working with some existing thing, or via a suite of good units tests, OR something that will let us know that it works.

**A detailed writeup (this is the main thing you will submit).**  For some projects this might be a detailed and well written effort of what you tried, what happened, etc.  For others this might contain a detailed breakout of result data etc. It should be clear, not too long - but convey significance of your work.  A bibliography or related work is not required.

# Proposal

Your proposal should be ~1 page explanation about what your team plans to do. You need to include the names of your teammates. The proposal should be in ACM SIGCONF format.

Also, include in your proposal a chart that breaks down the deliverables associated with the project and how significant a contribution they are (i.e. how much credit they ought to be worth in the final submission).  Here's an example for an eBPF project to see what we mean:

Use eBPF to monitor the linux networking stack:

| Deliverable | Credit |
| --- | --- |
| eBPF module that can dump packet trace from the kernel | 30 |
| Userspace program that can analyze and graph the dump | 20 |
| Test program that produces reliable network traffic so we can verify correctness | 20 |
| Dump of scp file transfer and analysis | 30 |

Of course, your project will likely be different but please include the chart and be aware that we will use it as a guide when evaluating your project (so if looks like items aren't going to be accomplishable, you should contact us).

The proposal is due on Oct 19, 2020 (23:59pm).

# Final Report:

At the end of the semester, we expect you to deliver a report (in PDF) up to 6 pages in ACM SIGCONF format. You need to describe (1) why the project is interesting or useful, (2) the background of the project, (3) your approach and why your approach is reasonable, (4) what 
software artifact is generated by your group, and (5) what are the results.

You will also submit your code (a link to a github repo or similar is fine) BUT you must include a short readme that in particular notes which sections of code are your own and which are taken from other sources (and what those sources are).

You should also include a short video demo.  This should be you compiling/running your code in the environment and seeing some interesting results + plus some verbal explanation of what's going on.  Upload your video to duke's warpwire service (basically an internally hosted youtube like tool): https://launch.warpwire.duke.edu/ and include a link with your submission.

The report, the code, and the video are due on Nov 20, 2020 (23:59pm).


